- [Instructor] Let's take a look at other data sources
that are supported by Pivotal
under the Spring Data umbrella project.
They all support the repository abstraction
and property expression queries found in Spring Data Commons
as well as methods specific to the data source.
First there is Spring Data GemFire.
Spring Data GemFire is a project that makes it easier
to build scalable Spring-enabled distributed
data management applications that use GemFire.
To learn more about GemFire, an in-memory data grid
for real-time high performant applications,
see the GemFire website under pivotal.io.
Next is Spring Data Key Value.
Spring Data Key Value is a project
that provides infrastructure
that implements Spring Data repositories
on top of a key-value-based in-memory data store.
It abstracts away from a particular
key-value data source such as Redis.
However if you need to tap into more of the Redis features
Spring Data Redis is available.
It provides high-end low-level abstractions
to easily tap into Redis features.
Redis is an in-memory data structure store
that can be used as a database, cache, and message broker.
Their website is under redis.io.
And there is a Spring Data LDAP.
Applications use the Lightweight Directory Access Protocol
to access object directory mapping data sources.
The data source could be Microsoft Active Directory,
or Linux LDAP for example.
The next module supports the Cassandra NoSQL database.
Spring Data for Apache Cassandra
offers Spring Data JPA developers
an easier entry into the paradigm shift
away from relational databases.
Cassandra is a distributed database management system
designed to handle large amounts of data
across many servers.
It supports data center spanning clusters
with asynchronous replication.
More can be found at the cassandra.apache.org site.
Spring Data for Apache Solr provides easy configuration
and access to the Apache Solr search server.
Solr is a full-text search server
that uses Lucene search library as its core
for full-text indexing and search via RESTful JSON APIs.
It provides distributed search and index replication
that is designed to be scalable and fault tolerant.
The list of data sources
that leverage Spring Data continues to grow.
On the projects.spring.io/spring-data page
there is even a section called community modules.
There are Spring Data solutions implemented by developers
and industries in the community.
The source and documentation for each module
is hosted on GitHub, like Spring Data Aerospike.
Others like Spring Data Couchbase
have their own Spring Data page that links out to GitHub.
Have you ever used Spring's
JDBC template for relational databases?
This convenient abstraction from JDBC
lost some popularity over the years
after the advent of ORM frameworks,
but it is still available and has upgrades.
It is now part of the Spring Data JDBC Extensions module,
which includes advanced access to Oracle databases
and even supports Querydsl search criteria.
And finally there is deep support for Apache Hadoop.
While not based on repository abstractions in Commons,
Spring Data for Apache Hadoop
does provide a rich set of features to interact with Hadoop
as well as the Spring Integration
and Spring Batch frameworks
to address a wide range of use cases.